# Data-Sorting-and-Analysis
I designed this program based on the given project specifications. This project had required that the final program must be capable of doing numerous data related fuctions and analyze the given data on runtime based on user commands. The program was required to open a text file and parse through all the given data points and store them securely in program memory. Once the data was stored correctly the user would be presented with a set of options on what to do next with the data. The user can select to sort the data using either the insertion sort algorithm or the merge sort algorithm. User can also view the average value of the set or choose a single data point to be returned based on given address input. Finally the program was required to implement various functions to run in parallel. There is a seperate functions labeled "mergeSortParallel" and "averageParallel" which only runs if the program can find multiple cores running on the machine. If the program finds more than one core on the machine then it runs the recursive elements in the function in parallel. Each function in the program by default will also print the time elapsed based on the time to execute a called function. Time elapsed timer will reset once a function is exited and will initiate when another is called. Overall goal of this project was to properly implement efficent forms of data sorting by using algorithms such as insertion sort and merge sort and to store data values into a data structure.
